In this tutorial, we will fix a small bug. Set in GameData two players and the number of seconds of the round is 120.
Start the game. When damage is done, our widget flashes red. We were killed.
We do a respawn. We will catch up with the enemy character so that he finds us.
Damage is done, but after respawning, the red widget does not flash. Let's see why this is happening.
In the Initialize function, the PlayerHUD of the widget is called only once at the start of the game.
In it, we subscribe to the OnHealthChanged delegate of the health component of the current pawn.
After the respawn, we change the character object and we need to re-do the bind of the
OnHealthChanged function to the delegate of the new character object.It would be perfectly fine if
there was a delegate in the controller class that is called every time the controller's pawn changes.
In the Initialize function of the widget, we would subscribe to this delegate and each time it is called, we would bind
to the OnHealthChanged delegate of the new pawn. Such a delegate exists, if we go to the OnPossess
function of the base controller class, we will see that at the beginning a local variable is created,
which is called bNewPawn. It is set to true if the Pawn has changed and a
delegate called OnNewPawn is called at the very end. If you go to the controller header file,
you can find a function called GetOnNewPawnNotifier - this function returns a reference
to the OnNewPawn delegate, the delegate has one parameter: a pointer to the new pawn, so in the PlayerHUD widget
we can subscribe to this OnNewPawn delegate and every time it is called,
we will subscribe to change the health of the new pawn. Let's implement this logic.
We check if the pointer to the controller is not null.
if not zero,
then we get a reference to the OnNewPawn delegate using the getter function
And add bind for the OnNewPawn function, which we will create now.
Let's go to the header file.
Into the private category, declare the OnNewPawn function.
According to the signature, it must have one parameter - a pointer to pawn.
We create the body of the function.
We transfer the code in which we subscribe to health changes to this function.
We need to get a pointer to the health component from the pawn, which comes in a parameter.
One more point: the OnInitialize function will be called after the OnPossess function,
so the very first time we will not receive a notification. Let's call the OnNewPawn function explicitly.
You can check the order of the call using breakpoints, or you can use the logs in the Initialize function and in
the OnPossess function, only for logs, the OnPossess function will have to be overridden in the PlayerController class.
We compile the project. We check the work of our code. The red widget is flashing. Then there is a respawn.
We will reach the enemy and the widget still does not blink after respawning. Let's figure out what's the matter.
The fact is that there is a bug in game mode, meaning it is obvious that this delegate should be called
when our pawn changes. Let's see what is the sequence of calling functions when character spawns.
To respawn, we call the RestartPlayer function. Next, we get into the RestartPlayerAtPlayerStart function
and directly in this game mode function explicitly calls the controller function, which
is called SetPawn and passes in it a pointer to the pawn that was just created.
The SetPawn function sets the internal pawn pointer to a pointer that we pass to this function.
In the header file, above the function declaration, you can read a comment that says
that it is better not to call this function from it. So game mode called this function,
set the internal pawn value of the controller. Next, the FinishRestartPlayer function is called.
Here the Possess function is called, into which the pawn already set to the controller is passed.
In the controller's Possess function itself, the OnPossess function is called
and the bNewPawn variable will never be true because game mode called the SetPawn function.
that is, the pointer that GetPawn returns is always equal to the InPawn pointer, so the
variable is false and the OnNewPawn delegate is never called with the given game mode logic.
Moreover, if we ourselves call the OnPossess function, since we did this with you in the very first section,
then there will be no problems with this, since we did not call the SetPawn function from outside. The base game mode class
needs to be fixed. Add fix so that the SetPawn function is not called in it. We do not work
with the sources, so we will not modify the game mode, but we will add our own fix. Let's override
the OnPossess function in the playercontroller class and explicitly call the OnNewPawn delegate in it.
There will be no problems in our code in this regard, but it must be remembered that if we call
the OnPossess function explicitly in our playercontroller, then the OnNewPawn delegate will do Broadcast twice.
It is also possible that in one of the next versions of the UE this bug will be fixed
and the OnNewPawn delegate will be called correctly, then in our code the OnNewPawn function
will be called twice. Let's simulate this situation, add a few additional
calls to the OnNewPawn function and see what happens in this case. We compile the project.
For a clean one, we need to leave one player on the stage, that is, our player.
And let's add temporary code for the test to the PlayerController blueprint.
We open the graph.
We will inflict damage on our character by pressing any key, for example "1". We call the ApplyDamage node.
We get the pawn using the GetPlayerPawn function, connect it to DamageActor and pass some Damage value.
Let's also open the PlayerHUD widget, go to the graph.
And when the OnTakeDamage function is called, we will display any message, for example, damage.
We start the game. Press "1". The message was printed three times, that is, we bind the OnHealthChanged function three times.
This is naturally wrong.
Although specifically in our case, nothing will break. Correcting this situation is quite simple.
Delegates have a special function that checks if bind exists for a specific object. The function is called IsBoundToObject.
As a parameter, we pass a pointer to the current object - this. The function returns true if bind exists
for the given object , so we added it under the if and also needs to take the negation.
That is, we only bind OnHealthChanged if it doesn't already exist.
We start the game. Press "1". The damage message was displayed once. Everything works.
Let's now check it out completely all together. Installing two players.
Damage is applied, the widget flashes.
We are being killed.
Respawn.
The widget flashes again. That's all in this lesson. I will not save all the test code.